>> Erik Reinert: Now we're
gonna go through the when.
I actually really liked this GIF [LAUGH]
because I felt like it was a good example
of when you should do something,
especially survivability, right?
And a lot of this next section is
really supposed to help you understand
when you should do some of
the things to build these designs or
when or you should or when you shouldn't.
So now we're gonna get into when to
use backend architecture designs.
So again, we're gonna start
out with a quote from AI.
I did not know AI was as prolific
as it is, but I'm here for it.
When I asked about the how you would
summarize this section it said
the right time to act is not simply found,
but felt.
It arises at the intersection of
preparation and intuition where
opportunities whispered becomes too
compelling to ignore [LAUGH] And
I loved how whimsical that sounded but
it's actually very true, right?
A lot of the times when you're
trying to implement something,
it might be a gut feeling of like,
okay, this isn't gonna work.
I know this isn't gonna work,
or it might be intuition.
But a lot of understanding
of that complexity.
All those other things we talked about
before and when to use them is also really
important, especially when you're at
a company trying to make large changes.
Or even in an interview and somebody is,
when would you do something?
It can be a really,
really quick red flag to an interviewer.
If you go like, why would you use this?
And they're like, whoa, hold on,
pump the brakes, man, like,
we're not even there yet.
And having that nuance can help you again
get the job that you're looking for
or help you make the change
you're trying to make, yep.
>> Student: Yeah, I had to reject a
candidate that I really liked because that
was like everything.
Yeah.
The solution was ready and
it was this tool.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
>> Student: Absolutely.
>> Student: It's like,
I really like you, but.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah,
it's scary, it's scary.
You kinda look at it and
you go like, do I trust this person?
Because I don't know.
And like you and I have even talked about
this before, Mark, with some of the like,
just to go back quickly,
I proposed the other course as well.
The platform directory course,
and I remember you were like,
I don't know what this is,
even accomplishing.
[LAUGH] And yeah, you have to, again,
part of building these textures and
and doing these things is making sure
that you're moving with the company.
Making sure that you are making
everyone feel comfortable.
That you're not trying to just overload
what your goals are with maybe
what the company's goals are.
And yeah having that ability to
act when the time is right rather
than making it your job to constantly
change things is a much different nuance.
Okay, so
when to use backend architecture designs?
We're gonna talk about understanding when,
the factors of when, and
considering when, right?
So let's get into it.
So understanding when to use
backend architecture designs.
The first one probably makes
a lot of sense to most of you,
which is when starting a new project.
Does anyone here know the term greenfield?
What does that mean?
Can somebody give it to me?
Anybody?
>> Student: Just starting something
brand new like from scratch.
>> Erik Reinert: Exactly.
>> Student: Not evolving
an existing thing.
>> Erik Reinert: Exactly, yeah.
So when you're talking about a greenfield
scenario, you're talking about
something that doesn't really
have impact anywhere, right?
Why is this valuable?
Well, because you don't have,
like you lose a or not lose, but you,
you get rid of a lot of the challenges of,
well, why should we do this, right?
How does this work?
How can we make this integrated into this?
If there's a completely like going back to
the rules thing that that person mentioned
before, right?
It may be easier to implement that rule
system when that rule system doesn't touch
anything else, right?
Or it's completely new and
it's a completely new part of the system
that's never really been explored before,
or things like that.
A new project can help you
have opportunities to explore,
try new things and build new systems.
Even again, Mark, what you were
saying with the candidate, right?
They might have looked at a lot of that as
greenfield because they weren't here yet.
They might not have
understood all the already
technical foundation you've created,
right?
And so that could be the difference
between somebody coming in and
changing everything right out the gate.
To coming in and actually
integrating with those systems and
working on growing what already exists.
So greenfield can be a really
good opportunity for that, but
you have to know when that is
actually a greenfield scenario.
>> Student: Yeah, I think a lot of
companies are probably like generally
broken and looking for a candidate coming
in to solve like particular solutions.
But there are cases where
the system works great.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
>> Student: It's scaling wonderfully and
people are loving it, so it does happen.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
>> Student: But I think that's, yeah.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah, no, absolutely,
having that understanding of when it's
greenfield as well is really important.
Again, if you come into
something with a fresh mind, but
you don't have the context, it might
not actually be greenfield, right?
And that can make you look bad,
in all honesty,
that means that you didn't
do your proper research.
It means that you didn't think about all
the already existing factors, right?
And if somebody can come into a
conversation and easily be like, well, no,
this isn't new.
[LAUGH] Like we've already got all
the like, what about all this over here?
And you didn't consider and be ready for
that kind of discussion, then people
are gonna lose face in what you're trying
to accomplish or what you're trying to do.
So knowing when it's a greenfield
scenario can be important,
can be helpful, but
having that context is really important.
So the next one is understanding when
it's scaling an existing system.
Because system designs can help use
to identify bottlenecks in areas for
improvement.
So again, going back to what
we were just talking about,
maybe most of the system works great,
right?
Maybe everything's good, everyone's happy,
we're making money, developers
are working and they're productive.
But you might notice one
particular problem, right?
And you go, okay, well, I'm not gonna
scale my focus back out to this huge view.
I'm just gonna focus on this one
particular problem and try and
build a good architecture or
system design around that.
This is what I do a lot,
to be clear, right?
At the company I work at,
a lot of the times,
we've already got something in place.
And more often than not, somebody at my
company will be, well, what about this?
What about that?
And you will get to a point
after being at a company and
developing systems for years and
iterating over that a long period of time.
Most of those problems might
already be solved, right?
However, say these solutions have also
introduced unexpected challenges, right?
A good example of this is,
say for example,
whenever you have a user sign
up it sends an email, right?
More often than not when people will
create that, they'll put the email request
in with the sign up request, which means
that that request takes even longer.
Because now it's gotta go out to your
email service, send that message, wait for
that message to come back with a success.
And so when somebody clicks sign up,
right,
they're now sitting there waiting for
like maybe five, 10, 15 seconds.
And just staring at a loading bar or
something like that, or a loader, right?
That is an opportunity of a bottleneck,
where it's to say,
how can we get users in quicker?
How can we get them using
the platform faster, right?
And maybe there's a way we can introduce
things like asynchronicity, right?
Or separating that logic out so
that the business gets to get
to where they want quicker.
And I'm gonna be honest with you,
you will always be able to sell something
if you can sell it to business.
Engineering is always gonna have a high
opinion, but at the end of the day,
the people who literally control the money
of the company are normally the people
who will have the ending decision.
And if you should or
should not do something.
And so I've dealt with that a lot
where I've wanted to make a change and
then I've approached it from
a technical perspective, right?
And gotten it thrown away, but then gone
back to it and been like, well wait, no,
this also gets people onto
the platform quicker.
It gets them more involved with
the features that we want faster,
things like that, then business will
be like, yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, yeah, we like that,
yes, yes, please.
So existing systems and
figuring out where you can identify
challenges to or
problems to improve can be really helpful.
So understanding when there are complex
problems that need to be broken into
manageable parts.
Going back to the original workflow or
workflow I showed you of
the Quark V1 infrastructure,
that's a good example of that, right?
For example, if I was to say, okay,
we wanna use serverless, but honestly,
I don't wanna spend the man hours of
having a team manage the open source
software, excuse me, the open source
software that we used, right?
Going back to the question of when
to use open source and when not,
this is a prime example of that, right?
Where we're spending 10,
20 hours of engineering hours a week when
we could just pay somebody
to take care of it.
We could just literally have as a cloud
provider, provide that as a service,
and that is, that's also decoupling
the complexity of a system and
really just giving that
complexity to someone else.
Saying you've got the engineers to do it,
you've got the time to do it, so
why don't you take care of it, and that
can be a part of the architecture rework.
Where it say like, all right,
well, we're gonna rip this out.
We're gonna have this go to here now,
and then,
there you go you have a new design, right?
Understanding when there is a need for
improved efficiency and
productivity, right?
And a good example of this is
understanding not just a bottleneck,
but understanding where developers
have multiple touch points or
data has multiple touch points.
[LAUGH] I had somebody in my chat
one day come in and say that,
[LAUGH] I can't believe I'm gonna mention
this, that UUIDs are not scalable.
Can anyone guess what they meant by that?
>> Student: You run out
of them eventually.
>> Erik Reinert: No, no.
So when we're talking about like users,
for example, right?
If you do nothing but
user IDs for everything,
you're gonna have to need
a lookup with that, right?
And if you're in a distributed system, and
you have to do multiple lookup, between
services, you're doing the same request
over and over and over and over and over.
And then you've got data or
logic that has to be updated in each one
of those systems over and over and over.
And I was actually interviewing at
a fang company, I'll put it that way,
and that was a problem
they were trying to solve.
They were at a huge scale, but
they constantly had to do lookups
to user information for like login,
authentication, things like that.
And that's what that person actually
meant, but understanding, right?
if you need that efficiency,
if that is something that's
a bottleneck to you or not, can be
another opportunity of understanding
when you can make that change.
Maybe instead of having to do
multiple lookups in multiple places,
you're passing context, right?
So you have context that passes between
services that gives more information
about the user so there's less lookups and
less stress put on the system.
So efficiency,
that also comes productivity, right?
A good example of that is say developers,
when they go to make a change to a system,
they have to update three places,
four places, five places, right?
That's even very common as well,
because more often than not,
developers copy and paste code.
Avoiding that so that productivity
can be smoother, whether it be,
okay, well we know all
the user stuff is here.
Maybe we need a user service, right?
Maybe we need a way so that the user
all logic is all together and
then we can have another service
handling transactions or something else.
That is not just productivity for
the infrastructure or the, what is it,
not the infrastructure, the services and
their scalability as well as performance,
but it's also the performance
of your developers, right?
Having one team focused on one tool or
one service, and
that's all they have to focus on.
And that kinda steps into the service or
microservice design that
companies move toward.
Because as you grow bigger and bigger,
you wanna separate those teams out so
that they have a narrow focus
on what they're working on, and
then those components get
glued together easily.
And this one's also really important too,
which is when there's a need for
better communication among team members,
right?
Maybe there's something that got
implemented that never was thought through
or never got documented.
Maybe there's already a system design
that exists and is in there, but
it's nowhere to be found in documentation,
right?
And this can be something as simple
as going out, looking at that system,
documenting seeing it wire,
framing it out so
that people don't have to depend on
things like tribal knowledge or guessing.
And it makes it easier to understand
the communication, especially for
things like handoffs and stuff like that.
So designs can be helpful
with communication as well.
And again, when you're talking
about 100s of developers, 10s or
20s of teams, the power of just a simple
document shared around is irreplaceable.